# Blog Post 1

## A Blog About Text Analysis


  This blog is an analysis of text analysis, specifically focusing on its use in literature and how the user may interpret its data. While inspecting this topic I will focus on the feminist approach to topic modelling tools, such as Voyant, as well as touching on a woman's use of these tools and their 'place' within this online environment. By taking a feminist approach to text analysis, I hope to show the complications within this setting by referencing academic papers by Johanna Drucker, as well as briefly mentioning points made by Franco Moretti in his journal 'Graphs, Maps, Trees'. I will also be concentrating on ideas made by Lisa Marie Rhody in regards to her ideas of re-visioning text analysis. 

  In her paper, ‘Humanities Approaches to Graphical Display,’ Johanna Drucker notes how digital humanists adopted visualization tools to their work, examining the meaning and interpretation of data within a text. Drucker looks at data to be an object given, capable of being recorded and observed, as well as see it as something that helps to represent the evolution of former into latter. However, Drucker examines data as something given and explores the relationship it has with capta, information that is taken from a source and they used to create visualizations.

  Drucker also mentions how we must focus on the representation of knowledge, paying attention to all the forms of knowledge we experience over time. In the past, and still quite noticeable in today’s society, women were restricted from equal rights and equal education within society. Steps were taken for this to become evolved and allow women to have the same freedom as their male counterparts. With this evolution of rights, the evolution of technology followed, providing services that allow everyday tasks to be done easier and quicker. Through these two advancements in society, it has allowed applications for education services which allowed those who could not physically attend school to still be able to learn. It is important that we see the relationship between the representation of knowledge and past experiences, as it allows us to see where our current information is derived from. 

  Visualization is the process of representing combined data in a method that allows the data to be easily understood. Through the use of graphical tools, such as Voyant, scholars are able to explore and render their data in a visual way. For example, say we wanted to analyze the text of an educational journal within a short period of time, with general non-digital analysis we could accomplish this, however, it would take far longer to get through than it would if done digitally. To avoid this, humanists use text analysis tools to digitally examine the inputted text and supply the user with a visualization made-up of a pre-made algorithm. This tool will not only save us a lot of time, but will supply us with key terms and phrases found within the chosen text. *Voyant example here* It has become increasingly important and useful for those humanists who wish to illustrate large quantities of information in a format that can be easily viewed and comprehended. However, visualization tools come with their downsides and challenges and many scholars, such as Johanna Drucker, have chosen to explore the different ways of understanding visualization, “graphical tools are a kind of intellectual Trojan horse, a vehicle through which assumptions about what constitutes information swarm with potent force” (Drucker, 2011). We need to ensure that we can recall how information supplied by these tools do not factor common sense in its algorithm, and through being able to identify this, we can develop a better sense of what the author is dictating. Scholars examine these tools as a humanities-centred tool which challenges the traditional concepts about the relationship between the representation of data, and works to accurately represent its data without altering the situated meaning of it. 

  Lisa Rhody’s (2016) feminist approach to text visualization is similar to that of Drucker: the idea that we should challenge the traditional representation of knowledge. Although they may follow a similar approach, many feminist humanists reflect on their place within text analysis and the idea of re-visioning the way we interpret data. Text analysis gives feminist literary critics the opportunity to embrace the technical and social challenges through theorization, in addition to supplying them with the tools they need in order to deconstruct ‘errors’ within this topic and correct the basis’, such as with the subject of gender. Rhody also examines how the ‘language’ of feminist analysis is, “aligned with the practice of defamiliarizing textual corpa” to ask new questions at different scales/viewpoints (Lisa Marie Rhody, 2016). Text data mining, effectively the same as text analysis, is the process of extracting high-quality information from a body of texts, and is described by Rhody as ‘a gentleman’s sport.’ The act of viewing text analysis bases off of the gender of the user brings forth Drucker’s analysis of how the past affects the results we may get. With there being “three poems by men to every one by women” (Lisa Marie Rhody, 2016), we can see how text analysis may be generally focused on a male’s work rather than a female’s due to the bias attitudes we have experienced in the past, ‘thus the representation of knowledge is as crucial to its cultural force’ (Drucker, 2011). As both Rhody and Drucker have mentioned, the act of re-visioning and reconstructing the interpretation of knowledge and data within text analysis will allow for us to have a better conception of what a body of text may be referring to. 
  
  In conclusion, Drucker and Rhody examine the importance of interpretation within text analysis through their use of feminist and historical examples, both of which look at how the misinterpretation of information can heavily effect the users experience within text analysis. As Franco Moretti mentions, ‘normal literature remains in place for twenty-five years or so,’ so we must ensure we take this into consideration before finalizing our understanding of a body of text. Although we still may be in a troubling place for women in the text analysis environment, by broadening this feminist viewpoint presented by Rhody we can allow for its users to better understand the gender bias within everyday literary texts. 

References:
  
-	_Drucker, J. (2011). Humanities Approaches to Graphical Display. Retrieved from http://www.digitalhumanities.org/dhq/vol/5/1/000091/000091.html_

-	_Rhody, L. (2016). Why I Dig: Feminist Approaches to Text Analysis. Retrieved from http://dhdebates.gc.cuny.edu/debates/text/97_

-	_Moretti, F. (2005). Graphs, Maps, Trees: Abstract Models for Literary History (9781844671854): Franco Moretti, Alberto Piazza: Books. Retrieved from https://www.mat.ucsb.edu/~g.legrady/academic/courses/09w259/Moretti_graphs.pdf_


